1. A group of people who believe they are descended from the same ancestor is called a 
 	khan.	nomad.	shogun.	clan.

2. The central idea of the Japanese Shinto religion was the worship of
 	nature.	Buddha.	ancestors.	warriors.

3. An elegant court society flourished at the Japanese capital of Heian during the years of about
 	500-700.	800-1200.	600-1000.	1200-1600.

4. Which of the following themes is most central to Japanese literature?
 	love of natural beauty	fear of foreigners
 	love of conflict	sensitivity to the plight of the poor

5. The Heian-era Japanese novel, The Tale of Genji
 	contains many poems about the beauty of nature.	is a retelling of the Japanese creation myth.
 	tells the story of the first shogun.	chronicles the adventures of a female samurai.

6. In the years from 1000 to 1200, what politcal system developed in Japan?
 	nation-states	feudalism	democracy	Zen

7. From about 1200 to 1800, the main rulers of Japan were
 	kings.	samurai.	shoguns.	merchants.

8. The Tokugawa rulers adopted each of the following policies EXCEPT
 	banning most European merchants.	banning Buddhism.
 	limiting the power of the daimyo.	banning Christianity.

9. Bushido required a samurai to
 	serve the emperor faithfully.	seek to live to an honored old age.
 	seek compromise between lords.	be brave in battle and loyal to his lord.

10. China's influence on Japan is shown in all the following examples EXCEPT
 	the writing system.	landscape painting.
 	architecture.	the Shinto religion.

11. When Europeans first arrived in Japan, the Japanese
 	allowed European merchants to trade only at one city.
 	greeted them with courtesy and curiosity.
 	refused to let European ships land.
 	massacred European sailors.

12. The sankin-kotai system ensured
 	the awarding of civil service posts based on merit.
 	the loyalty of daimyos by requiring their service in Edo.
 	the distribution of land to relatives of the shogun.
 	that farmers and peasants could not become warriors.

13. During Tokugawa rule, an individual's first loyalty was to the
 	daimyo.	shogun.	family.	father.

14. Under Tokugawa rule, the lowest social class in Japanese society was the
 	samurai.	farmers.	artisans.	merchants.

15. The effects of isolating Japan included all of these EXCEPT
 	giving Japan a long period of peace and stability.
 	increasing conflict between shoguns and daimyo within Japan.
 	allowing Japan's culture to thrive in creative ways.
 	leaving Japan outdated in science and technology.

16. Who forced Japan to open trade in 1853?
 	Prince Shotoku	Woodrow Wilson.	Mutsohito.	Matthew Perry.

17. What group is responsible for modernizing Japan in the late 1800s?
 	boxers	Meiji	samurai	Formosans

18. The Russo-Japanese War in 1904 had all of the following consequences EXCEPT
 	Japan defeated Russia.
 	Russia won northern Korea.
 	Russia lost its business interests in southern Manchuria.
 	Japan became a world power.

19. Japan became a leading industrial nation by all of the following means EXCEPT
 	developing a modern currency system.	borrowing money from the West.
 	revising the tax structure to raise money.	building railroads and ports.

20. One factor motivating Japan's attempt to industrialize rapidly in the early 20th century was
 	the loss of its colonies as a result of World War I.
 	its ample supply of natural resources.
 	the need to provide employment for a growing population.
 	the collapse of silk and mineral industries.

21. During the 1930s, Japanese life was increasingly influenced by
 	Zionism.	communism.	militarism.	pacifism.

22. Japan's parliamentary system had all of the following weaknesses EXCEPT
 	civilian leaders had no control over the army.
 	liberals held a majority.
 	the constitution limited powers of the prime minister.
 	the cult of the emperor favored the militarists.

23. Japan's objective for going to war in the 1930s was
 	to become an imperial power.
 	to obtain an empire as a source of resources and raw materials.
 	to challenge Britain in Asia.
 	to capture the Philippines.

24. Japan was bitter toward the West for all of the following reasons EXCEPT
 	a refusal by the League of Nations to support racial equality in its charter.
 	its loss of territory in World War I.
 	an American ban on Japanese immigration.
 	the West's refusal to support Japanese policy in China.

25. Why did Japan decide to attack Pearl Harbor?
 	to continue its expansionist plans in the Pacific without U.S. interference
 	to take back territory that it had formerly owned
 	to retaliate for U.S. attacks on Japanese possessions in Southeast Asia
 	to open the way for a massive invasion of the United States.

26. President Truman's reason for ordering the use of the atom bomb was
 	to end Japan's invasion of China.	to be able to seize Japan's colonies.
 	to avoid having to invade Japan.	to keep the USSR otu of Japan.

27. By 1890, Japan's new strength had all of the following effects EXCEPT
 	more favorable treaties	imperialist ambitions.
 	increased industrial development.	loss of traditional culture.

28. Europeans reached Japan by sea in the
 	late 1200s.	early 1600s.	mid-1500s.	late 1700s.

29. An important difference between the government of Japan and that of Tang China was that
 	Japan did not want a strong central government.
 	In Japan, officials came from the nobility, not from among scholars.
 	Japan rejected the teachings of Confucius.
 	Japan wanted to develop its own kind of government.

30. For about 200 years from 1636 on, the Japanese maintained a policy of
 	isolation from foreign contact.	state-sponsored Buddhism.
 	colonial expansion.	toleration of Jesuit missionaries.

31. The City of Peace and Tranquility, as the Heian called their capital city, is also known as
 	Tokyo.	Shikoku.	Kyoto.	Hokkaido.

32. In 1853, Matthew Perry used naval power to force Japan to
 	begin trading with the United States.	end its opium trade.
 	cut off trade with Europe.	end its colonization of Korea.

33. The Great Change of the Taika reforms refers to the
 	attempt to reclaim land from Japanese clan leaders.
 	adoption of Buddhism by the Japanese.
 	adoption of Cofucian ideas by the Japanese.
 	Japan's shift from a seafaring economy to one based on rice production.

34. One aspect of Chinese culture that the Japanese modified for their own use was
 	civil service examinations.	the martial arts.
 	the Chinese system of writing.	the Korean cultural bridge.

35. Because most of Japan is mountainous, its people lived mostly
 	in the mountains.	in river valleys and coastal plains.
 	on the smallest islands.	on boats.

36. At first, Japanese people learned about China by means of
 	Chinese traders and fishermen.	Yamato.
 	conquest on the mainland.	Korea.

37. Women at the Heian court were forbidden to
 	marry.	read or write.	learn Chinese.	learn kana.

38. The seas surrounding Japan caused its people to
 	maintain some independence from China.	stop farming and only fish.
 	trade only with Japanese islands.	develop a superior navy.

39. The followers of Shinto honored their beliefs by
 	overtaking the religious life of Japan.	learning their religion from Korea.
 	worshipping the forces of nature.	developing their own language.

40. How did the Japanese shoguns end the feudal warfare in the late 1500s?
 	They imprisoned the samurai.
 	The refused to engage in wars.
 	They imposed central government control on the country.
 	They allowed daimyos to marry freely.

41. How did the arts and theater fare during Japan's feudal age
 	They were nonexistent in Japan's warrior society.	They blossomed and developed new forms.
 	They made modest advances.	They were banned by shoguns.

42. Heian women influenced Japanese culture by
 	studying the Chinese language.	supervising family estates.
 	producing important works of literature.	training in the military arts.

43. Which of the Chinese influences did the Japanese reject?
 	law code	civil service system
 	tea ceremony	pagoda architecture

44. Who held the real power in Japanese feudal society?
 	the emperor	women	samurai	shogun

45. Which of the following Japanese cultural restrictions?
 	tea ceremony	Noh drama	kabuki	haiku

46. One reasons that Japanese nationalists were determined to seize Manchuria was it
 	was rich in natural resources.	belonged to the League of Nations.
 	had destroyed a railroad line.	attacked Japan first.

47. Under the Japanese militarists in the 1930s, the Japanese taught schoolchildren
 	western ideas.	communist ideology.
 	independent thinking.	service to the state.

48. Why were the Japanese able to gain influence over China in the early 1900s?
 	Civil war had weakened China.
 	China signed a treaty of protection with the Japanese.
 	The Communists asked for help fighting the Guomindang.
 	Yuan Shikai was related to the Japanese emperor.

49. One effect of the Great Depression in Japan was that
 	civil war broke out.	Japan gave up its claim on China.
 	conservative militarists demanded expansion.	Japan went bankrupt.

50. China and Japan both responded to increasing contact with Europeans by
 	limiting access to their countries.	declaring war on several European countries.
 	adapting many European customs.	accepting rule by Europeans.
